I was at one of the lowest time in my
entire life this is different from from
anything I have experienced before in
this self-exploration work you have to
trust yourself that you can handle going
off the map you can either do the kind
of work where you after 10 years can
describe everything that's wrong with
you but nothing's changed or you can do
the work that you say what the [__] just
happened I Can't Describe any of it but
everything has
changed I've for a long time wanted to
talk to people who have
through uh the master class for years
like people have been doing it and have
done it years ago and mostly I wanted to
do that to learn how the effect was
happening for them and what might we
might need to change or want to augment
about the course and just generally just
how everybody's experience was
especially like year 2 years 3 years
later so today we have three folks here
with us and I'm going to give them a
chance to introduce themselves in just a
second one
did the Master Class A year ago one did
it two years ago one you did it three
years ago and so we're going to find out
what their experiences were like and uh
and what we might be able to learn from
it and so let me start off with the
person who's who was uh the longest
which is Caroline three years ago I I
was like which one am
I I was like I I know I'm not one but I
might be two might be three hard to say
[Music]
um and uh Caroline's a writer from
Berlin but is there anything else you'd
like to introduce about yourself before
we get
started um well I'm I mean I'm not
German I think is important to say my my
dad loves to tell people they're from
Germany I'm like Dad I am actually
American so you can say
that um but I have lived in Berlin for
almost six years and I write fiction and
non-fiction and I help people write
books awesome great and then Eva was two
years ago and she's an architect who
lives I'm going to say it parttime in
Panama parttime in Toronto that that
might be a little premature uh do you
want to say anything thing about
yourself Eva she was two years ago yeah
um yeah B but what you describe is like
the ideal life description of though I
hope
I I will feel that yeah yeah born and
raised in Italy so 100% Italian even if
moving around and yeah I love being in
the sun and I love architecture and I
love design and being outdoors and being
with you yeah thanks yeah and you've
been in Panama now for what three months
is Right months yeah three months yeah
and when when are you going back to col
Toronto in two
weeks I'm grieving
[Laughter]
having just come back from Costa Rica I
understand why you would be yeah um and
then uh from one year ago Matthew who is
a uh consultant a coaching consultant
and lives in Philadelphia is that right
just outside of Philadelphia Hadfield
New Jersey small town outside the city
yeah anything you want to introduce
yourself or say about yourself before we
get started um I will say because
because I'm hearing a little bit about
aspirational lives we uh we live here
but we uh this summer we're spending a
month in Italy and it's our first test
to have the whole family me my partner
and our three-year-old daughter kind of
splitting some time between the states
and Italy so
awesome okay so let let's get started so
first of all the first thing I'd like to
know is
like what what on Earth made you sign up
for a $6,000 online
course how how did that decision get
made it's fresh for me so I can share i
a a dear friend of mine who who many of
you may know cat um she turned me on to
the podcast I mean year like it was at
least two years ago she was like a lot
of people I know are are really like Mo
moving some big boulders with with this
work you know and she said start with
the podcast and I have a tendency to go
to all in and things so I like gave
myself several months act you know over
a year I would say just listening to the
podcast and last summer I was like it's
time to jump in and at that point it was
like I'm I'm
ready um it it felt like it was a
no-brainer last year yeah and what what
what made you think that there would be
something more in the course and then
the podcast cuz it's such a hard thing
to describe for people we have such a
hard time describing how the course is
so different than the podcast what like
what made you think it would be
different I I knew it was depth like I I
I I knew everything you were talking
about had a next level of the work yeah
like because I felt like the podcast a
lot of times I was like no I want more
practice I want more
tools knowing that those weren't the
things but like so I was like I realize
I'm not going to get these just by
listening to this number one and number
two I think the the community aspect I
was like I want depth and I want I want
other people that are doing this work so
I think those were kind of the two big
things for me awesome I want to pin the
community because one of the things I'm
curious about but I want to ask at the
right time which is how many people are
you still in contact with around the
work CU that that for all of you that
would be something that' be really
interesting to me um okay so uh Eva or
Caroline who what want to answer the
question which was like what made you
sign up what what got you in the door to
do this I can I can share um I think it
was well I found out about you through
Thiago Forte yeah because I had done the
building of second brain course and I
was just so excited by that because
I just I mean I'm a giant nerd and I
like being in school so I was like very
fulfilled by that course and I you know
it's been 20 years since I was in grad
school so I was but it felt like it
scratch this itch with that and so then
when at the end of that
course there was the Q&A session that
you did it felt like it was the
emotional psychological component to the
sort of intellectual portion of building
a second brain it was like the
kinesthetic brain basically and I had
done I mean I did my ma in Psychology 20
years before but I was you know I was in
my 20s when I did that and I felt
like I really benefited from doing that
but I felt like I'm a totally different
person now than I was so the idea of
being able to revisit a lot of the
themes at a different level was just it
was really exciting to me so it and I
was like it's cheaper than a master's
degree so I'm up for
that awesome very cool EV what was what
got you
there I wish I could give you like
the easy answer that I give to people
that is hiago and my partner was doing
it and listen to a podcast and all of
that but the real truth is that
I I was at the one of the lowest time in
my entire
life and I had no idea what to do and I
knew that I needed help
somehow and Kicking and Screaming I
joined the master class cu some part of
me knew
that that's what I
needed yeah so it
was a mix
of deep Despair
and
hope yeah oh
yeah yeah thanks for sharing thanks for
being vulnerable appreciate that
awesome so okay so what do you second
question is like what do you remember
about the course like what like you have
the experience of this so you you have
eight weeks you have um you know you
have the small group sessions the
one-on-one sessions you have the rapid
fires with me what was your I don't need
to know like what each one of those was
like or anything but like what was your
experience while you were in the course
like what what do you remember about
being in the course from
you know months to years away and let's
do a slightly different order of people
so I'll just pick Caroline what what was
your yeah I was gonna say I was like I
don't want my memories distorted because
I'm furthest I'm furthest back if they
tell me then I'll remember all of it
um I think the things that
really stuck I mean it all stuck out to
be honest I mean I think I remember like
we had a really meaningful hot seat
there was I had a great experience with
my one-on-one partner I really loved my
small group and then also the themes in
particular I still think
about want over need I still think
about those themes in terms of making
decisions so those
really want over need in particular
um stuck with me
and just just sort of thinking about
like
don't there was a theme of like don't
make up some story about what you should
do like what do you actually want here
and that has stuck with me big time
yeah Eva since you were two years off
what what was your experience of being
in the
course
yeah well it was um an intense Journey
it pushed my limits like nothing else uh
but in a different way too like very it
really pushed but never too
much um and the container was there the
support was
there so it felt
like going through so
much and at the same time with a good
pace
uh good
support
and a continue discovery of like more
things to look into so I started like
first week with a rapid fire coaching uh
so I kind of like don't I just like I
jumped in um and I'm so glad I did and I
think it put me in a position where I
was more open to receiving everything
that was offered and and it unlocked in
me
the idea that I can actually I could
actually engage and like really like
actively participate in the course so I
remember like it was intense it was very
intentional it was hands on and and also
was I was held the whole
time
yeah I I'll ask the next question in a
second after we hear from Matthew what
was your your only less than a year ago
what was what was your experience of
doing the
course the the thing that jumped out at
me the most and I say this to people all
the time like I feel like I've been
consuming personal and professional
development stuff for
decades and like very little of it has
actually stuck and I I feel like once I
got into Master Class like the prompts
weren't these outlandish things they but
they they changed my view on they
changed my view on myself they like
changed my view of the world and in a
way that I was like this is different
from from anything I have experienced
before in this self-exploration work
like and it's funny because it's hard
for me to like pinpoint the why but it
it it feels so different being in the
work
seeing the the language weuse used to
talk about ourselves and the world and
have that shown to you in a new way I
just
I it is hard to put into words but I I
felt it immediately I was like this is
different this is different than
anything I've done to try to like more
deeply connect with myself in the world
so so we hear that a lot especially from
folks who've been doing like tons of
self-development work we hear like right
and so I'm gonna I'm going to push like
what like if you can give us any hints
about what makes it unique compared to
the other stuff that you did and maybe
it's just practical stuff like we did
this kind of thing instead of this kind
of thing but I'm just curious like what
what because some folks come to it first
time they've never done any
self-development work and they're like
wow and then they come to me a couple
years later and they're like that that
wait this is doesn't happen in the other
things we're doing but so what what was
what do you think it is that hits
it I Caroline made the point which was
so good um authenticity over Improvement
I think the first thing was like I'd
been doing this work for years with this
focus on Improvement and the thing that
felt so different was like no no no no
that there is an innate goodness in you
as a person that we are going to unpeel
these layers to get to and that has
everything you need
whereas everything else I feel like the
things that brought me into it the work
I was doing with this was this I have to
improve and this was like no you are
good as you are yeah um so I don't know
if that fully answers the question but
that felt that really felt like the
distinction for me like oh wait I'm okay
like I'm I'm I'm actually good I just
need to reconnect to like yeah
that yeah also about I'm just thinking
about the experience of going through it
was that I am the sort of person who
will I mean you can see I have five
million books like I want to get to the
why really fast but this course didn't
let us do that it
was so I remember you know doing
exercises and doing practices and just
kind of taking it on Joe said this was a
good idea to try so I'm going to try it
but it the fact that there were no
intellectual explanations before doing
the exercises and that we just had to do
them and be with other people and take
it as an
experiment and also that there wasn't a
lot of wordiness in the program it was
like you know you can read a whole book
on a philosophy and not remember any of
it but it was like you know authenticity
over Improvement I can remember that you
know I can remember one over need I can
remember these pairs of words so it
wasn't it wasn't feeding my little inner
nerd um it was it was like enough that
you felt it and you had to feel it
before you could talk about it and that
was the way it was structured so it you
didn't skip
over the experiential so there was a
foundation I think once we did talk
about it it's like we had a shared
experience to refer
to
yeah very cool thanks so on on to the
the the other question that I wanted to
ask around this which was
um
uh H how how was the relational aspect
of it you have this one-on-one partner
Caroline you spoke to it a little bit
also there's this like small group and
so it's something that you don't like
it's not something done a lot in society
like oh here's a group of strangers and
we're going to go super deep with these
folks H how how was that in the
experience for you all like what was
that I'm kind of curious like how people
like it feels like it should be a hurdle
to get over but it seems like within a
couple of like weeks everybody seems to
be feeling grooving with their group so
I'm just wondering like how was that
Journey for you
Eva do you want to give it a go ahead go
ahead Matthew yeah I was just going to
say I felt the way the way they set up
the order where it's like hey you have
to do the work by yourself first and
then there's a partner and then like I
just think that that Cadence is perfect
because it's like okay I realize I got
to start just with me and then all right
now I have a safe space with just one
partner and now I have some other folks
to bring in so that that felt by that
first group meeting I was like all right
I'm like I'm I'm good there he is yeah
yeah I think for me so initially the
idea was
terrifying um of having
to like show everything all my dirty
laundry to first one stranger and then a
group of strangers and then if I wanted
to the bigger Community with a rapid
fire coaching or
Circle uh but it's true like being radal
and like knowing do my work first when
we do it a partner and then the group
and it was incredible just how like how
doing that unlocked or shed light on
different aspects that were not part of
a curriculum but like all insecurities
or fear s of like how do we choose the
one-onone partner because we had to
choose a partner like and be chosen and
it like awkwardness and the group and
like oh these are complete strangers and
Parton me was so reliev it was just just
strangers and part of me was terrified
so having to go through all that like
noise and background work while doing
the work was so powerful I I didn't I
didn't believe that like doing grouping
of work would would really add so much
to the process and so I but I tried to
like leave my skepticism out for a
little bit and just try it and and it
was very
powerful yeah the reason that we do
those like very short slogans and
there's not an intellectual a lot of
intellectual till after is that what
we've noticed like when we do the week
long which I know EV you've done like
the in person nobody remembers what the
[__] happened the entire they're just
like what the [__] happened I only
remember yesterday you're all laughing
you have that
experience and I remember this um I wish
I knew who this guy's name he was a
Spanish guy he said you can either do
the kind of work where you C the
self-development work where you after 10
years can describe everything that's
wrong with you but nothing's changed or
you can do the work that you say what
the [__] just happened I Can't Describe
any of it but everything has changed
yeah and I and and so there's a theory
about it that you're using you know like
your brain is in a different set of
brain waves for that Theta and so you
don't remember in the same way but all
we know for sure is that people don't
remember people don't remember the work
and so to do a whole bunch of
intellectualization beforehand doesn't
really make a lot of sense until like
it's in their bones and their
body um Okay cool so next question is uh
so now three months afterwards so so
like that first three months of you're
at done with the course you've got some
ways of interacting with us maybe less
for you Caroline because we didn't have
as many like other ways for people to
jump in back
then what was that like three months
after the course the August September
October like what
was I'm gonna start with Matthew on this
one because that smile is killing me
what what I was like August I was a
puddle I will say like the
thing the thing I didn't account enough
for and this is like one of the Lessons
Learned like that recovery time every
week is so important
and I just scheduled my the rest of my
life for around master class and I was
not scheduling that recovery so when
August hit and that like that first week
I was like I don't want to interact with
anybody like I just want to
be um so yeah so August was I mean
August was a month of Stillness with
with with healthy movement mixed in but
then by
September
um there was part of me that was like to
this point around not knowing what's
going on in it to be like I have to go
back and revisit some of this stuff
because there was stuff that I only
practiced for a week that if I had a
month with the thing I would love to go
deeper on it yeah so that felt like the
thing to do and and that's what I did I
was like oh this thing felt you know
like a very ripe area for
exploration like the family stuff for me
I went down a rabbit hole with my mom
and my brothers and
so that was once I kind of recovered a
little bit I was like now where like
what's the lead Domino of this that I
want to spend some more time in yeah
that's cool how about how about for you
Carolyn what
was well it was
um I think it was it was not quite that
intense because I tend to book a fairly
mellow August that's just I mean I live
in Europe
so that is how we do um and also my
birthday is the end of August so I tend
to take a holiday around then so it the
recovery wasn't so much of a challenge
um but what I found was really helpful
and what I ended up doing without any
particular like intention to it but it
did really help me digest was I listen
to the podcast a lot right after we
finished so I found myself revisiting
and that help things to sort of sink
in and that was really helpful and then
I ended up I was lucky in that I ended
up I can't remember exactly when this
was it might have been as late as
October but September is I ended up
going to
London I have um a relative who lives
there I have a bunch of friends there
and a lot of my small group lived in
London so I ended up having dinner in
person and got to got to hang out with
them and that was a
really just a nice sort of feeling the
community in person um so that was also
a real treat
yeah and and Eva how was it for you the
three months
after
well yeah I would say the last week of
the master class and the next month was
like really tense like a lot of things
got steered up and needed to be looked
at
um it was a a profound month of really
getting in touch with the want like in a
way that I never i' never experienced
before um it was a month where trying
to understand and think was completely
useless and
uh I guess I made fist with that uh it
just nothing made sense and made sense
at the same
time um so it was uh it helped a lot to
take some time on my
own um just to be with
whatever and um they get
slow and it was
um it was a lot of months of knowing I
had seen things that I couldn't
see
and trying to navigate my way through it
not trying actually just letting things
happen so that I could navigate through
it and I couldn't really tell what
happened in August and September
um it's funny it's like I cannot even
remember what happened in August
September and Aid of October but I was
deeply like doing the work um it just uh
it was like a wave but had to like come
to
shore um I don't know if
I'm so if if if this becomes a podcast
and and nobody can see people can't see
it like everybody's naughty they're all
yeah like we all don't know what you're
talking about it is this weird thing
about I I tell people about like after
after you're doing this work it's like
if you show up at the grocery store and
you don't know what to buy that's great
but don't force yourself to try to put
it all together like that's what the
like to be in that unknown space for as
long as possible I think is totally
critical if you try to rebuild yourself
quickly it's it's not as good
um and so I have a question about that
actually is what could we what could we
have done if anything to support you all
in that like transition of that month
of who am I what am I what do I do how
do I do like things are different and I
like is there how how at all could we be
more supportive in that or is it do you
feel like it's just part of what's
necessary
or I wonder if there's like a way to
do I don't know like a cown guide or
something like you know when you book
like like what Matthew was saying of you
know you might want to book a week or
two without a bunch of
plans after this course or it might even
be cool to do a survey of alumni and
just say what resources were super help
to helpful to you afterward and then
just if you did like a series of emails
that are like hey one week after you
might try taking more naps or you know
very it's okay if you still feel guilty
about it which you probably don't after
this program
um here's I nap so much now by the way
um yeah it's so great um but just things
that people have said like you know
here's this person who said they really
loved this episode here's a link to it
you might want to take a listen this
week just to revisit or just
something um I've also seen ones where
there's like an extra call that's like a
month after the end it's like is
anybody freaking out you know yeah we do
we do that now I think yeah we do that
now I don't know if we did it when I was
there I don't think we did yeah I don't
think we did yeah all right you're ahead
of me
then I even think a guide like that for
doring because I clearly did not carve
out enough recovery time every week
enough integration time like I almost
wish I budgeted more time for Master
Class during the weeks so I wasn't like
trying to squeeze stuff in ignoring
recovery especially once you start doing
the emotional releases like that was
something that really kicked my ass
and I didn't clear enough space after
those things that's for sure I think
that's another thing that makes the
course different going back to that is
that emotional release stuff I think is
different than what a lot of folks are
doing in a especially in an online
course yeah yeah when I said family
stuff that's I should have said
emotional release stuff because it was
less about the family and it was more
about the emotion the emotional dynamics
of the family that had to be released so
yeah yeah totally
yeah yeah that that's so true and
also because at that point you don't
even know that what you need is an
emotional release of some sort like but
then if someone offers that to you and
you do it but it's like oh oh oh yeah oh
yeah it's exactly what I needed and for
everyone it's different because a
million emotions so whatever you needed
to process but it's true cuz at least
like for me the resistance was still
there like Fe like some sort
of like eding on something and and
having the possibility to again choose
to to attend to something because no one
can do it for you or force you to do it
but just knowing hey it's right here you
want it then you choose it's the right
time for you or not but I find it
helpful because uh especially with
emotional
release like doing it on your own is a
little bit more challenging not be
actual doing the release but starting it
yeah it's it's always a challenge for us
about the like in all the year-long
programs that we have now we do the
emotional release
regularly because because we can track
folks and say oh is there but like it's
a little bit scarier for us to do like
big emotional releases and not be
tracking people that because it feels
like it's really important that
especially if they're learning stuff
while they're doing the emotional
releases if something comes up we want
them cared for so that's kind of a
that's the balance we're trying to
strike in that um okay so
now last major question and then uh
three years two years almost a year
afterwards like background music [__] it
it was like what like is it like wow
holy [__] I'm so glad like every time
I've asked a question you all answered a
little bit differently than than I
intended for the question
um so so I just want to ask something to
the effect of like what are the like how
do you view this thing how do you relate
to it three years two years almost a
year afterwards and so let's let's go
backwards Caroline three years later
what how do you relate to
it what do you make of it I well I think
it was 100% worth it I think and it's
the kind of thing where I feel lucky to
get to have this conversation because
it's because you don't always make the
connection as oh this is
why that is easier now cuz I think I
remember Tik nut Han saying something
once where he was saying like you don't
notice not
toothache you notice a toothache but if
the toothache is gone then you're not
like oh it's so great I did that so now
I don't have toothache anymore
so there are a lot of things that are
not toothache now
but I don't every day think oh yeah
that's because I did the master class
it's it's more like it built up
skills of
um of not
getting hooked into drama even when
challenging things happen and also
noticing like I had a family situation
recently that I just got angry because
there was a
miscommunication and I just walked
around the house saying I'm really
angry and normally I don't know if I
would have felt comfortable doing that I
was like I'm [__] furious and and
then I did that for a while and then the
next day I was fine and I could totally
have
a conversation and the other person in
the situation was like I'm so sad that
I've lost this connection with you and I
said you you haven't lost me at all
because we're having the
conversation I was angry because we had
a miscommunication which was based on
not having a conversation but now we're
having the conversation like maybe it's
uncomfortable but it's
fine and I don't that was not the kind
of interaction that was happening before
this program and also it's now enough
for me to say like I think it changed my
work things I'm doing things in my work
that I don't 100% I mean does anyone
know that they will pay off but but I'm
like this is what I want to do right now
and maybe it doesn't look exactly the
way I would have thought it would look
but it's what I want to do so it's what
I'm doing and weirdly it's working
better than trying to do it the right
way like trying to write two books at
once because I want them both done what
is that and then this year I was like
you know what I'm just going to write
one of them and I finished it I just
finished it on Friday in like 3 months
and I was like huh maybe you should just
write the one you want to write right
now and write the other one later it's
just it's just things like that they
come really fast as soon as I stop for a
second and say okay well what is the
what do I really want to do right now
the yeah um so those are my not
toothaches that I think I I the twoo
thingses I no longer have because of
having done Master Class yeah it's such
that what you just said there about work
it's such a hard thing to describe to
folks and I'd love I love your
description of it of
that yeah they shouldn't be working it's
not the right way to do it but just
somehow everything's working better
everything like what what like H and and
it's not it's like it the best I can
describe it as is that the strategy of
how to get ahead Falls away and then
you're in your authenticity and that
just moves [__] quicker moves better
quicker you're happier yeah okay Eva two
two years yeah two years
after yeah I again like sometimes
I I'm surprised that I still think oh no
I haven't really changed and I'm like ha
like inent parts of me really laughs uh
it's so not true um the awareness of
seeing the patterns of that like not
noticing like of sorry of noticing that
you don't have a tooth fake anymore it's
like it's a muscle that is just like
alive now and noticing
how being stuck in Old patterns and in
avoidance for me especially it become so
painful that I don't want to do it
anymore maybe I resist the want but
that but like spring is there like it's
like it's like activated wants to jump
out it's like no like this is you try
you can try to contain it but it's it's
your own choice you can suffer now if
you want but you can also not suffer uh
and that's the most powerful thing ever
I keep fighting of course
but less than less I guess um and yeah
the
authenticity of
just not trying to make sense of
everything and going a bit with what
they want is and seeing like I could see
especially in the last year how it had
this ripple effect in my
family
um like I had to
I struggled with that so much because I
got to a point where maybe I could see
patterns in other people and having the
strength to bring it back to me instead
of trying to fix others and bringing it
back to me my experience my
everything and enduring the suffering
and the pain in myself and seeing others
uh not not having what I have thanks to
the master class uh and still then I can
see how especially in the past few
months things are unraveled in a way in
my family that I could not be happier
and I and I was able to show up in a way
that it would have been impossible for
me like a couple of years
ago
so yeah not only like in my personal
relationship because I'm lcking up at my
partner deep into the work too so we
have a shared language but with people
who I've never even done therapy like it
just like and it's still everything
changed I love that ju supposition that
you just said and I think it's such an
important thing
it's like you you you named what I see
to be the steps which is like you did
the work on yourself then you stopped
trying to fix other people and then they
changed you know I mean you're like I'm
not focusing on other people I'm going
to focus on myself and then the people
change like if people if you're if
people are going to change it's after
youve stopped trying to change them and
you you focus on your that was
beautifully
said Matthew how about you so you've
only you've only been whatever nine
months out so
what but it's so interesting because
initially I remember there was a hurry
up and ingree you've just done all this
great work now hurry up and ingree so
that was the first thing I'd be like
don't you dare like um so that was the
first thing I had to be with and then EV
I'm so happy you said that because I I
was so excited about having done the
work I wanted to share it and I had to
realize that I was share I was wanting
to share it because like hey and you can
change your life too with this and that
now got to go in that post guide like
hey oh we say it it will never
yeah people are going to do that no
matter how many times
we um but so you know I I would say
those are like the first couple of
stumbles out of the gate and then it was
like oh right
like I can I can be so slow with this
work and also like the the thing that
has really helped me is without the
intention of doing the work just and and
and these words resonate every day now
because of all of you like it is more of
a focus on a way of being and the way of
being in my life now just feels
easier like it doesn't mean things
haven't been hard it doesn't mean we're
not dealing with you know difficult
things but my relationship with those
things is so much different my
relationship with my emotions is so much
different and I think that is a thing
that I'm
like the less again the less trying I do
the more I can just show up in this way
whether it is you know my two brothers
like at each other's throats which was
one of my family things after Master
Class where like I would have handled
you know very
differently um so yeah that that I will
say it just feels like this how do I
want to be
today like just feels like the voice in
my head that is that is encouraging me
to you know continue to connect to that
authenticity and even when I screw up
I'm
like you wanted to do a little bit
better than that and also I'm not going
to judge you for it but maybe next time
like it just feels like a softer more
encouraging like when I'm not
accomplishing the things I want to
accomplish like it's not with judgment
it is like with kind of care and with
Wonder um so it just it it it feels it
feels different the way I interact with
myself and the world each day even
knowing I Haven it integrated everything
that that thing is true every
day that's cool and can I add something
to the the voice in the head because I
didn't I didn't mention that at all for
like my two years post master class but
I think that is an ongoing process for
me for sure but um it just changes
perspective on life on your identity on
how you relate to people how you relate
to yourself on stories limiting belief
it's just such a game Cher is one of
those things that of course you you
would try immediately you want to try to
fix eliminate make better and once you
start like loosening up a little bit
around it is just a new way of seeing
life and also relating to people like
sometimes I feel that I'm interacting
with a voice in the head in someone else
it's not even them anymore and sometimes
I see that like oh actually right now
I'm acting out the voice in my head uh
let's step back so it gives me ability
to not only step back but
also giving like the means to to kind of
really be with that because it's it's
different from like meditating and
seeing with your thoughts are arising
and leaving and it's not you that kind
of inter like not personal and it's
richer in real light real time
constant you can see it everywhere and
everyone it's such an enriching way of
looking at life and experiences it's
such a gift to remember that that's a
possibility I always have yeah
okay so sub question on this
so I I one of the open questions I have
about the courses this Falls that so for
a while I just thought the people who
jumped in with both feet got the most
out of the course right like all three
of you jumped in with both feet just
like bam I'm here I'm in it to win it
recently I've had a couple um I've had a
couple like correspondences from people
from years back who were
like that I I I I I hardly noticed in
the course because they were so quiet
they were so in the background and
they're like life has changed
Everything's changed thank you so much
um I still believe that the more you put
in the more you get out I maybe they
were just putting in in different ways I
wanted to hear what your thoughts were
both about like what you put in how you
get out and and and how we could
potentially encourage people to if
they've signed up for the course to
either jump in with both feet or jumping
in a way that allows them to have the
most out of the course like what what
what can we do better on that do you all
think I have a little bit of a thought
there yeah please I
think there was a really lovely image
and I wish I could remember who said it
but it was somebody in either Circle or
in our small group meeting or something
and there was this sense there was an
image somebody shared of a bunch of
people skydiving together and he's like
um sometimes it feels like you're
falling but you're really flying and I
thought about that image like at least
once a week since then and oh I think
that part of
the experience was
about jumping in the
way that feels like a big leap for you
so that you can feel this sense of whoo
this is a little this is a little big
for me and that's going to look
different for everybody
um and so I think that getting to that
place so that you can feel this tension
of am I falling or am I
flying you have to get Beyond playing it
safe I mean that's something that's
shifted as well is that I'm now kind of
addicted to being in that place
um like I used to I don't know if you do
this Joe but because as a podcaster but
like I used to write all these questions
for guests and I still get people I had
somebody who's like a New York Times
columnist I didn't prepare a single
question I was just like I'm just going
in and I'm going to see what we find
like just really being in this space
together cuz I know something is going
to happen that would have made me throw
up when I started the show 9 years ago
but now I wouldn't do it any other way
but it's like you have to take the cont
context of your life look at what your
safe kind of space is and and push to
the edge of it and then see how it feels
to do the course like going beyond what
the you who came into the course is
comfortable with because then you're
going to see that you're able to do
more than you thought that's really
really well said yeah and by the way
absolutely I I have absolutely learned
that preparing doesn't serve me like if
there's 100% preparation 5% preparation
serves me
0% preparation doesn't serve me but I I
need to feel like it's alive and it's
there like I might have a loose outline
in my head that I've thought about for
five minutes right before the podcast
which is What's Happening Here and Now
but like in general it's like I I want
to be in the moment want to be present
so much so that you know I don't read
the chats because I want to be so in
like when we're doing Zoom calls I don't
read chats because I want to be so in it
with everybody and not be thinking yeah
because every time you prepare questions
you go in there and then they're like oh
yeah back in that time when I was a
submarine captain and you're like what
like obviously we're talking about that
now like [__] the questions like tell me
about the
submarine exactly and if you prepare too
much you lose it but it's like you have
to you have to trust yourself that you
can handle going off the the map cuz I
think a lot of people come into a course
like this where it's like it's going to
be structured you're going to do these
things it's all going to be handled it's
like oh great okay I can play in my
little dance space but it's it's like
well yeah we're doing that so that you
can jump out of the yeah space and then
see that all of it still works yeah very
that's yeah really well
said any other thoughts Eva and Matthew
it feels unachievable like when you see
the amount of work every week you're
like this feels
unachievable and I think like but after
that first loving accountability you're
like no one is going to be perfect in
this and there may be like that that may
be someone's goal to be perfect in this
but that as soon as that exercise was
introduced it was like I can show up to
this in support of the people that I'm
working with because I do think I
appreciate how important that is like
hey it is important that you show up for
this for the other folks but in terms of
the work you're doing and how you're
deciding to show up
like as soon as that Grace was given I
was like oh okay
like I'm I'm not gonna I'm not going to
bat 100% for this week and that's
okay and I'm still going to get
something like there is not a week even
if you don't even if you do the minimum
MTH that you're not going to get
something out of and I think that is
just a reality that you are coming in
wherever you are you can try to do it
all you can try to do the minimum amount
and like regardless of where you start
and where you end like you're not g to
not get anything from
it like and it might be the biggest risk
not to do it perfectly right you know
there's like the people who do every
single I mean I am somewhat guilty of
that
spreadsheet with you I love a
spreadsheet but it's like to be the
person who shows up having done 80% of
that that might be the risk that shows
like I'm still valuable in this
community even if I don't have the
perfect spreadsheet yeah yeah yeah it's
like going going against the grain of
what your usual you is like if it's
someone who always wants to share
everything like write everything thing
talk engage with a million people what
it's like to take a moment before being
the first one to raise a hand what is
like to actually do it instead and like
own it 100% or like what is like to act
as someone who would there's a lot of
room for experiments so I think like
what I would say is like more than
jumping in completely or thing a little
bit like far back is like how can you
you do something you would not normally
do um knowing that it's okay like we're
all here doing it uh that is a I think I
don't know if like maybe someone could
find a question that it's true for
themselves because they know if they are
playing it safe and maybe it's fine um
but just being very intentional like I
don't know if there's a way for everyone
to be very intentional every week with
whatever we're doing they take
charge and I think that that is to me I
think the most powerful thing just
reclaiming your in ownership of every
single interaction you have with the
group with and and then dealing with the
consequences mean consequences meaning
your own thoughts
yeah
beautiful that would have been an
awesome prompt up front the like hey how
would you normally show up for this
thing and challenge yourself to like not
just lean into that like that prompt to
experiment while in it
like yeah I love that prompt I also love
the prompt of like you know your Edge
just it needs to feel a little bit like
falling a little bit like flying that's
where that's the place that's great yeah
thank you for that awesome so uh last
question that I said I was going to ask
uh and then if there's anything you want
to add which is
um are you still in touch with your
folks are like the people that you do do
you still have relationships with the
people you did the master class
everybody's noding yes yeah yeah that
makes me so happy that I think it's so
important to us you know I think
generally the only discount that we give
for anything is a community discount
because we know how powerful it is for
having people who do the work together
and but also the other part is like we
want to create experiences where
people where people create a community
so they have each other to do the work
with and so because we don't want people
convincing folks to do this work
ever that's fantastic that's so good to
hear that that's
still yeah that's cool we're trying to
do in person we're still juggling you
know between New Jersey New York
Pennsylvania yeah but yeah I think and
Caroline you mentioned that experience
you had right after like I think that
everybody who I'm talking to like
they're craving some imperson Community
around this work yeah that's part of why
we do that the reunion for people who've
done the deeper work but it it's so hard
because we have such an international
clientele and so many languages and you
know yeah it's always fun to like look
out and see like somebody's on a beach
in Vietnam somebody's like
hanging out in like Norway with snow in
the back what were you gonna say Eva
yeah but it's incredible how people like
really want then to connect and want to
come to reunion I was so impressed by
some people who like I'm like how can
you find the time like it just like
makes no sense for them to be here and
it makes perfect sense for them to be
here and everyone has this yeah and I
also I never thought I would be those
[Laughter]
people
awesome so that's where I would end it
however is there anything else you all
want to
[Music]
share just thank you yeah you're welcome
and thanks for this opportunity to to
revisit I think
it's it's always good I think to have a
moment to make that
comparison
yeah because again if you're just going
along and things are working well it's
you don't necessarily take that moment
which is really
valuable yeah it's and when I remember
in my own Journey there was like the
time when I was
like working working working is it
making a difference is it making a
difference is it making a difference
it's not it is oh my God is it is it not
it is like all that stuff and then there
was like the moment of like clearly
[__] [__] has changed you know and
maybe I wanted to go faster but clearly
[__] has changed and then there's
like the now it's like those moments of
something comes out of left field that
reminds you of how it used to be and
you're like oh my God I'm so grateful I
can't like I don't even recognize that
way of being anymore and but I can now
see that I used to do that and such an
interesting thing in the Journey of how
we relate to the journey itself how how
we change in our relationship with the
journey
itself yeah and this this thank you and
this kind of different way of feeling
gratitude because even just now that you
said thank you is like a deeper
different thank you is
yeah it just it seems so simple but
doing gratitude after ma class is
different like right and even just that
I've
seen what a difference it
makes I will add to that I you know I th
this feels like a like a generational
level up like I for myself for my family
for my daughter like
this because it helps me see and this
goes back to like my inability to
integrate things historically it's
because I wasn't really understanding
how I was relating to work how I was
relating to self how I was relating to
family and this just it felt like
putting you know putting on a
a a perfect set of lenses to kind of see
the world from an authentic perspective
and I just it's like it is a gift
that it will serve Generations long past
me and I'm that I'm so grateful
for
yeah and I hadn't thought about I think
about it that way in my own you're
making me Misty as well but um I I think
about that for my own work you know
where I'm
like I know that the work that I've done
is like literally makes me jealous of my
children sometimes you know where I'm
like oh you had such a great childhood I
didn't have that and um and I I view it
as that as like this gift to others I've
never viewed until this
moment that
gift and I always think about the people
who write me and say my life has changed
and my relationships have change I've
never until this moment thought about
and it touches me very deeply that
um that like it's generational changes
happening
everywhere so thank you thank you for
that you're welcome my mom thanks you
too she was like she was like your
grandfather was this way your father was
this way you were this way and now I see
that like that's starting to change like
[Music]
well you can tell her she's
welcome I defin I definitely
will all right thank you everybody thank
you very much good to see you you so
much thanks so much you're welcome